Brigitte Le Normand

Co­Investigator

University of British Columbia Okanagan

Brigitte.lenormand@ubc.ca

Brigitte Le Normand is Assistant Professor of History and director of the Urban Studies

program at the University of British Columbia Okanagan. She holds a PhD in History from

the University of California, Los Angeles. She was a Max Weber Fellow at the European

University Institute in Florence, Italy, and has been a visiting scholar at the Centre for

Metropolitan Studies at the Technische Universität Berlin as well as at the Filosofski

Fakultet in Zagreb.

Brigitte Le Normand has recently published Designing Tito’s Capital: Urban Planning,

Modernism, and Socialism in Belgrade (University of Pittsburgh Press, 2014.) In addition

to Designing Tito’s Capital, she has published several articles on Urban Planning in

Belgrade, Yugoslavia. She received an Insight Development Grant from the Social

Science and Humanities Research Council of Canada to launch the project Cities and

Regions in Transition: the case of Rijeka/Fiume. She is also working on a project

investigating the relationship between Yugoslavia and its migrant workers in Europe

during the Cold War.

Vanni D’Alessio

Co­Investigator

University of Rijeka and University of Naples

dalessio@ffri.hr, gidaless@unina.it

Vanni D’Alessio is Assitant Professor at the Department of History of the University

of Rijeka and Research fellow at the Department of Social Sciences of the

University of Naples. He received a PhD in History at the Department of History of

University of Naples, completing part of his graduate school at the Institutum

studiorum Humanitatis of Ljubljiana. He has held a Post­doc position at the

University of Padua, and has been a visiting scholar at the Institute of Ethnology in

Zagreb, at the University of Washington in Seattle and at the Sweet Briar College

(VA).

Vanni D’Alessio has written a monograph in Italian on the birth of nationalism in a

Central Istrian small town in late Habsburg period (Il Cuore Conteso, 2004) and

several essays in Italian, Croatian and English on the Upper Adriatic in the 19th

and 20th centuries. He has also written on the divided city of Mostar after the war

in Bosnia­Herzegovina, on which he filmed a short documentary film. His areas of

expertise include the history of Italy, Yugoslavia and South­Eastern Europe, in

particularly the Upper and Eastern Adriatic in the 19

Dorjan Lecki

Research Assistant, Master’s Student

University of British Columbia Okanagan

Dorjan.lecki@alumni.ubc.ca

th and 20

Dorjan Lecki was born in Rijeka, Croatia in 1994. He has participated in the

Croatian National Geography Competition four times. In 2012 he commenced his

undergraduate study in Applied Geography at the Department of Geography,

University of Zadar, Croatia, completing his Bachelor’s degree in 2015. He was a

three­time recipient of Federik Grisogono award for outstanding success during my

study. He was the president of the Association of Geography Students in Zadar.

He has given three lectures, and written two articles that were published. Having

completed his undergraduate study in Croatia, he has started my graduate studies at the

University of British Columbia Okanagan in Interdisciplinary Graduate Studies, focusing in

Urban Studies. He speaks Croatian and English fluently, and also has language

skills in Italian, German, Spanish and Russian. He also has strong computer skills,

including Microsoft Office suite and Internet software.