
Project Description

This interactive map is part of a larger project entitled Cities and Regions in Transition: the case of 

Rijeka/Fiume, which is funded by an Insight Development Grant from the Social Science and Humanities 

Research Council of Canada.  This broader project asks: how did the long-term transfer of cities and 

regions from one state to another during and after the Second World War affect these places?  We 

approach this research question by focusing on one particular case: Rijeka/Fiume, which was a part of 

Italy from 1924 to 1947, at which time it was transferred over to Yugoslav control. The objective of the 

two-year study will be to inquire into and record the various ways in which the city was affected by this 

transfer, and based on these findings, to derive a methodology that can be fruitfully applied to other 

case studies. 

Following the completion of this first phase, the project will expand in two directions. The first, in 

collaboration with the department of History of the University of Rijeka, is to fully and richly document 

both the changes and continuities in Rijeka’s transition. The second, in collaboration with scholars 

familiar with post-war German, Polish and Soviet history, is to use the methodology developed in the 

first phase to write a comparative history of the social, cultural and spatial consequences of territorial 

changes after the Second World War. 

By limiting the scope of the inquiry to a single case study, we are able to ground our investigation in a 

deep knowledge of the specific historical context and develop a full range of questions. Scholars have 

documented the significant exodus of the Italian population from Istria back to Italy, although their 

findings continue to be controversial and disputed due to their sensitive nature. Much, however, 

remains to be investigated. What impact did this exodus have on the city from a spatial and cultural 

perspective? In particular, what happened to the property that was left behind? What took the place of 

the traditional Italian elite? To what extent did Italian culture and language continue to play a role in 

Rijeka? The impact of the replacement of the Italian political and economic system by the socialist 

Yugoslav regime has significant implications for all these questions, and opens up new ones. What effect 

did the imposition of a socialist property regime have both on the built inheritance and on new urban 

development? How did the city’s incorporation into a new economic system change its economic 

profile, and with what consequences? What impact did geopolitics and ideology have on the city? In 

seeking the answers to these questions, other questions will emerge. This iterative process will allow us 

to draw an inventory of types of change and continuity, which can then be applied to other contexts.

 This project will contribute to our understanding of the consequences of the Second World War and its 

settlement for European societies. This study will both examine the attempts to engineer homogeneous 

communities in the newly acquired territories while also revealing the more complicated realities that 

prevailed in borderlands. It also provides a unique opportunity to examine the intersection of nationalist 

politics with the ideological and geopolitical dimensions of the Cold War. As such, this project is of 

interest to the fields of international relations, geography, political sociology, and the interdisciplinary 

fields of nationalism studies and Cold War studies. It can also contribute to the reconciliation and the 

improvement of relations between certain European communities and states, which continue to be 

strained by deep historical wounds.